CITATION_NOTICE.md, before:

# Citation and Prior Work Notice

## Important Note on Originality

**This implementation is NOT a published research paper.** It is a novel synthesis and implementation of existing ideas from the literature on missing data in Support Vector Machines.

## Key Prior Work (What Has Been Published)

### 1. **Pelckmans et al. (2005) - Foundational Work**
```
@article{pelckmans2005handling,
  title={Handling missing values in support vector machine classifiers},
  author={Pelckmans, Kristiaan and De Brabanter, Jos and Suykens, Johan AK and De Moor, Bart},
  journal={Neural Networks},
  volume={18},
  number={5-6},
  pages={684--692},
  year={2005},
  publisher={Elsevier}
}
```
- **First systematic treatment** of missing data in SVMs
- Proposed distance-based and probabilistic approaches
- Theoretical foundation for missing data kernels

### 2. **Chechik et al. (2008) - Max-Margin Approach**
```
@article{chechik2008max,
  title={Max-margin classification of data with absent features},
  author={Chechik, Gal and Heitz, Geremy and Elidan, Gal and Abbeel, Pieter and Koller, Daphne},
  journal={Journal of Machine Learning Research},
  volume={9},
  pages={1-21},
  year={2008}
}
```
- **Max-margin framework** for absent features
- Theoretical analysis of generalization bounds
- Inspiration for our Expected Value kernel approach

### 3. **Williams et al. (2007) - Bayesian Approach**
```
@article{williams2007classification,
  title={On classification with incomplete data},
  author={Williams, David and Liao, Xuejun and Xue, Ya and Carin, Lawrence and Krishnapuram, Balaji},
  journal={IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence},
  volume={29},
  number={3},
  pages={427--436},
  year={2007},
  publisher={IEEE}
}
```
- **Bayesian treatment** of incomplete data
- Probabilistic modeling of missing features
- Foundation for our Cross-Correlation kernel

### 4. **Smola et al. (2005) - Early Kernel Work**
```
@inproceedings{smola2005kernel,
  title={Kernel methods for missing variables},
  author={Smola, Alex and Vishwanathan, SVN and Hofmann, Thomas},
  booktitle={Proceedings of the 10th International Workshop on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics},
  pages={325--332},
  year={2005}
}
```
- **Early exploration** of kernels for missing data
- Theoretical foundations
- Basis for kernel-based approaches

## What This Implementation Contributes

### Novel Aspects (Not Previously Published):
1. **Unified Framework**: Combines ideas from multiple papers into a single, practical implementation
2. **Modular Kernel Design**: Easy-to-use interface for experimenting with different approaches
3. **Scikit-learn Integration**: Full compatibility with existing ML workflows
4. **Comprehensive Implementation**: Complete working system with documentation and examples
5. **Cross-Correlation Kernel**: Our specific probabilistic kernel formulation
6. **Performance Comparison**: Systematic evaluation across different missing data scenarios

### Building on Prior Work:
- **Expected Value Kernel**: Extends Chechik et al.'s max-margin ideas
- **Cross-Correlation Kernel**: Builds on Williams et al.'s Bayesian approach
- **Kernel Framework**: Develops Smola et al.'s kernel concepts
- **Implementation**: Makes Pelckmans et al.'s theoretical ideas practical

## How to Cite This Work

If you use this implementation, please cite the foundational papers above and acknowledge this implementation:

```
@software{joshi2025scikit_missing,
  title={scikit-missing: Support Vector Machines for Missing Data Classification},
  author={Joshi, Ajay},
  year={2025},
  url={https://github.com/ajoshiusc/scikit-missing},
  note={Implementation building on Pelckmans et al. (2005), Chechik et al. (2008), Williams et al. (2007), and Smola et al. (2005)}
}
```

## Publishing This Work

If you plan to publish research using this implementation:

1. **Cite the foundational papers** listed above
2. **Acknowledge this implementation** as a novel synthesis
3. **Consider collaboration** - contact ajoshi@usc.edu
4. **Follow academic standards** for reproducible research

## Related Recent Work

For completeness, here are other relevant papers in this area:

```
@article{garcia2010pattern,
  title={Pattern classification with missing data: a review},
  author={Garc{\'\i}a-Laencina, Pedro J and Sancho-G{\'o}mez, Jos{\'e}-Luis and Figueiras-Vidal, An{\'\i}bal R},
  journal={Neural Computing and Applications},
  volume={19},
  number={2},
  pages={263--282},
  year={2010}
}

@inproceedings{gondara2018mida,
  title={MIDA: Multiple imputation using denoising autoencoders},
  author={Gondara, Lovedeep and Wang, Ke},
  booktitle={Pacific-Asia Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining},
  pages={260--272},
  year={2018}
}
```

---

**Summary**: This is an original implementation that synthesizes and extends published research, but is not itself a published paper. Always cite the foundational work when using this implementation.

Commit message:

Update citation notice with verification status and add detailed contributions for referenced papers

CITATION_NOTICE.md, after:

# Citation and Prior Work Notice

## Important Note on Originality

**This implementation is NOT a published research paper.** It is a novel synthesis and implementation of existing ideas from the literature on missing data in Support Vector Machines.

## Key Prior Work (What Has Been Published)

### 1. **Pelckmans et al. (2005) - Foundational Work** ✅ VERIFIED
```
@article{pelckmans2005handling,
  title={Handling missing values in support vector machine classifiers},
  author={Pelckmans, Kristiaan and De Brabanter, Jos and Suykens, Johan AK and De Moor, Bart},
  journal={Neural Networks},
  volume={18},
  number={5-6},
  pages={684--692},
  year={2005},
  publisher={Elsevier}
}
```
**What this paper actually does:**
- **MCAR focus**: Specifically handles "missing completely at random" data
- **Modified risk approach**: Defines a modified risk function that accounts for uncertainty from missing values
- **LS-SVM extension**: Builds on Least Squares SVM formulation
- **Mean imputation connection**: Shows their approach generalizes mean imputation in the linear case
- **Componentwise approach**: Extends to additive models using componentwise kernel machines

**Key quote from abstract**: *"A non-parametric perspective is adopted by defining a modified risk taking into account the uncertainty of the predicted outputs when missing values are involved. It is shown that this approach generalizes the approach of mean imputation in the linear case..."*

### 2. **Chechik et al. (2008) - Max-Margin Approach** ✅ VERIFIED  
```
@article{chechik2008max,
  title={Max-margin classification of data with absent features},
  author={Chechik, Gal and Heitz, Geremy and Elidan, Gal and Abbeel, Pieter and Koller, Daphne},
  journal={Journal of Machine Learning Research},
  volume={9},
  pages={1-21},
  year={2008}
}
```
**What this paper actually does:**
- **Structurally absent features**: Focuses on features that don't exist (not just unobserved)
- **Direct classification**: Classifies incomplete data without feature completion
- **Margin in subspace**: Maximizes margin of each sample in its relevant subspace
- **SOCP formulation**: Uses second-order cone programming for linearly separable case
- **Two optimization approaches**: QP approximation and iterative exact solution

**Key quote from abstract**: *"We show how incomplete data can be classified directly without any completion of the missing features using a max-margin learning framework...based on the geometric interpretation of the margin, that aims to maximize the margin of each sample in its own relevant subspace."*

### 3. **Williams et al. (2007) - Bayesian Approach** ⚠️ NOT FULLY VERIFIED
```
@article{williams2007classification,
  title={On classification with incomplete data},
  author={Williams, David and Liao, Xuejun and Xue, Ya and Carin, Lawrence and Krishnapuram, Balaji},
  journal={IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence},
  volume={29},
  number={3},
  pages={427--436},
  year={2007},
  publisher={IEEE}
}
```
**NOTE**: I could not access the full text of this paper to verify the specific claims about Bayesian treatment and probabilistic modeling. The citation should be used cautiously until verified.

### 4. **Smola et al. (2005) - Early Kernel Work** ⚠️ NOT FULLY VERIFIED
```
@inproceedings{smola2005kernel,
  title={Kernel methods for missing variables},
  author={Smola, Alex and Vishwanathan, SVN and Hofmann, Thomas},
  booktitle={Proceedings of the 10th International Workshop on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics},
  pages={325--332},
  year={2005}
}
```
**NOTE**: I could not access this paper to verify the specific contributions. This citation should be used cautiously until verified.

## What This Implementation Contributes

### Novel Aspects (Not Previously Published):
1. **Unified Framework**: Combines ideas from multiple papers into a single, practical implementation
2. **Modular Kernel Design**: Easy-to-use interface for experimenting with different approaches
3. **Scikit-learn Integration**: Full compatibility with existing ML workflows
4. **Comprehensive Implementation**: Complete working system with documentation and examples
5. **Cross-Correlation Kernel**: Our specific probabilistic kernel formulation
6. **Performance Comparison**: Systematic evaluation across different missing data scenarios

### Building on Prior Work:
- **Expected Value Kernel**: Extends Chechik et al.'s max-margin ideas
- **Cross-Correlation Kernel**: Builds on Williams et al.'s Bayesian approach
- **Kernel Framework**: Develops Smola et al.'s kernel concepts
- **Implementation**: Makes Pelckmans et al.'s theoretical ideas practical

## How to Cite This Work

If you use this implementation, please cite the foundational papers above and acknowledge this implementation:

```
@software{joshi2025scikit_missing,
  title={scikit-missing: Support Vector Machines for Missing Data Classification},
  author={Joshi, Ajay},
  year={2025},
  url={https://github.com/ajoshiusc/scikit-missing},
  note={Implementation building on Pelckmans et al. (2005), Chechik et al. (2008), Williams et al. (2007), and Smola et al. (2005)}
}
```

## Publishing This Work

If you plan to publish research using this implementation:

1. **Cite the foundational papers** listed above
2. **Acknowledge this implementation** as a novel synthesis
3. **Consider collaboration** - contact ajoshi@usc.edu
4. **Follow academic standards** for reproducible research

## Related Recent Work

For completeness, here are other relevant papers in this area:

```
@article{garcia2010pattern,
  title={Pattern classification with missing data: a review},
  author={Garc{\'\i}a-Laencina, Pedro J and Sancho-G{\'o}mez, Jos{\'e}-Luis and Figueiras-Vidal, An{\'\i}bal R},
  journal={Neural Computing and Applications},
  volume={19},
  number={2},
  pages={263--282},
  year={2010}
}

@inproceedings{gondara2018mida,
  title={MIDA: Multiple imputation using denoising autoencoders},
  author={Gondara, Lovedeep and Wang, Ke},
  booktitle={Pacific-Asia Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining},
  pages={260--272},
  year={2018}
}
```

---

**Summary**: This is an original implementation that synthesizes and extends published research, but is not itself a published paper. Always cite the foundational work when using this implementation.
